---
layout: page
order: 2
title: Executive Summary
tagline: 
short: Summary
group: navigation
---

Open data is still in its infancy. Less than five years after the first
major Open Government Data (OGD) portal went live, hundreds of national
and local governments have established OGD portals, joined by
international institutions, NGOs and businesses. All are exploring, in
different ways, how opening data can unlock latent value, stimulate
innovation and increase transparency and accountability. Against this
backdrop of rapid growth of the open data field, this Open Data
Barometer global report provides a snapshot of OGD practices at national
level. It also outlines a country-by-country ranking. Covering a broad
sample of 77 countries, it combines peer-reviewed expert survey data and
secondary indicators to look at open data readiness, implementation and
emerging impacts. Through this study we find that: 

-   **OGD policies have seen rapid diffusion over the last five years**,
    reaching over 55% of the countries surveyed in the Barometer. The
    OGD initiatives launched have taken a range of different forms: from
    isolated open data portals launched within an e-government
    framework, through to ambitious government-wide OGD
    implementations. 

-   **But – there is still a long way to go:**Although OGD policies have
    spread fast, the availability of truly open data remains low, with
    less than 7% of the dataset surveyed in the Barometer published both
    in bulk machine-readable forms, and under open licenses. This makes
    it unnecessarily difficult for users to access, process and work
    with government data, and potential entrepreneurs face significant
    legal uncertainty over their rights to build businesses on top of
    government datasets. 

-   **Leading countries in the ODB are investing in the creation of
    ‘National Data Infrastructures’**to provide a foundation for public
    and private innovation and efficiency. They have high-level and
    broad-based political backing for the OGD initiatives, and are
    investing in capacity building with entrepreneurs and
    intermediaries. They are also focussing on building
    communities around open data, convening government officials and
    outside stakeholders to understand more clearly how data can be
    harnessed for economic and social progress. However, no countries
    can yet claim to fully be ‘open by default’, and embedding OGD
    practices across government is a key future challenge.

-   Mid-ranking countries have put in place some of the components of an
    OGD initiative, such as an open data portal and competitions or
    events to catalyse re-use of data, but have often failed to make key
    datasets available, and are lacking in important foundations for
    effective open data re-use. **Absence of strong Right to Information
    laws may prevent citizens from using open data to hold government to
    account**, and weak or absent Data Protection Laws may undermine
    citizen confidence in OGD initiatives. In addition, limited training
    and support for intermediaries may mean data cannot be mobilised to
    generate economic and social benefits. 

-   Low-ranking countries have not yet started to engage with Open Data,
    and **many developing countries lack basic foundations such as
    well-managed and digitised government datasets**. In these
    countries, interventions to support OGD may look radically different
    from the leading OGD initiatives surveyed in the Barometer – with
    opportunities for open data approaches to be used to generate, as
    well as use, public information.

-   The Barometer ranks the UK as the most advanced country for open
    data readiness, implementation and impact, scoring above the USA
    (2<sup>nd</sup>), Sweden (3<sup>rd</sup>), New Zealand (4<sup>th</sup>), Denmark and Norway
    (joint 5<sup>th</sup>). The leading developing country is Kenya (21<sup>st</sup>),
    ranking higher than rich countries such as Ireland (29<sup>th</sup>) and
    Belgium (31<sup>st</sup>). However, no country can yet claim to be fully
    ‘open by default’.

Furthermore, in offering the first global snapshot covering both OGD
policy and practice, the Barometer highlights:

-   Different countries and regions face different challenges in
    pursuing OGD – including the need to build government data
    collection and management capacity; the need to support and equip
    innovators and intermediaries to use data; and the need to secure
    civil society freedoms that will enable the use of open data for
    effective transparency and accountability. There is no one-size fits
    all approach to OGD.

-   Key datasets such as Land Registries and Company Registries are
    least likely to be available as open data, suggesting that OGD
    initiatives are not yet securing the release of politically
    important datasets that can be vital to holding governments and
    companies accountable. 

-   In most countries, key datasets for entrepreneurship and improving
    policy are not available as open data, and when published are in
    non-standard formats. For example, even in the case of public
    transport, where data standards are well established, just 25% of
    countries surveyed have machine-readable data available. Mapping
    data is also often unavailable in digital forms, or only available
    for a fee, suggesting that inefficient charging for public data
    continues to be an issue in many countries.

-   Categories of data managed by statistical authorities are the most
    likely to be accessible online, but are often only released in very
    aggregated forms and with unclear or restrictive licenses. Adding a
    focus on open data to statistical agency capacity building may
    assist in making key datasets available as bulk, machine-readable
    open data, contributing positively to the ‘data revolution’ (UN,
    2013). 

-   Strong evidence on the impacts of OGD is almost universally lacking.
    Few OGD programmes have yet been evaluated, and the majority of
    discussion of impacts remains based on anecdote. The Barometer asked
    about six kinds of OGD impact (government efficiency, transparency
    and accountability, environmental sustainability, inclusion of
    marginalised groups, economic growth, and supporting entrepreneurs).
    In countries with some form of OGD policy (n = 43) in 45% of impact
    questions no examples of impact could be found, and on average
    evidence of impact was scored at just 1.7 out of 10.  Scores were
    particularly low for inclusion and environmental impacts of OGD,
    suggesting an area in need of further focus. 

It remains very early days in the development of OGD practices. The
World Wide Web has now been with us for almost 25 years, and, even so,
many governments, businesses and civil society groups are still in the
early stages of learning how to harness its potential. The open data
vision is a bold one: but one that will take considerable work to make a
reality. It cannot just be a case of ad-hoc dataset publication, but
needs attention paid to legal, social, economic, technical, organisation
and political dimensions of open data publication and re-use. This
year’s Open Data Barometer provides a baseline for tracking how we
collectively progress in the open data arena in years to come. 
