---
layout: page
title: Open Government Data - A Global Snapshot
tagline: 
short: Global Snapshot
group: navigation
---



# Introduction

The idea of Open Government Data (OGD) has seen rapid diffusion across
the globe. At the end of the last decade few governments had engaged at
all with the idea of open data, and the number of OGD initiatives could
be counted on one hand. By mid-2013 the concept of OGD has spread across
the globe. There are now OGD portals and projects to be found on every
continent, and in an increasing number of cities and international
institutions. Open data has made it into strategies and actions plans at
the highest levels, from Open Government Partnership National Action
Plans, to the G8 Open Data Charter, and from initiatives on open data in
Aid, Extractives and Agriculture to the UN High Level Report on the
Post-2015 Development Agenda, which calls for a ‘data revolution’
incorporating a move towards open data. 

However, amongst this dramatic progress, diffusion of the open data idea
has not been equally experienced across geographies and sectors; nor
have the potential benefits of open data been locked-in. There is still
a long way to go before the democratic, social and economic potentials
of open data can be fully realised in every country, and – even where
contextual factors are conducive to open data supply and use – many OGD
initiatives are presently resting on shallow foundations, at risk of
stalling or falling backwards if political will or community pressure
subsides. 

In the Open Data Barometer we have sought to capture a snapshot picture
of OGD around the world. The macro-level picture presented in this
report is informed by, and complements, our on-going qualitative
research work to explore open data readiness, open data use, and
emerging impacts of open data, in different country contexts and sectors
across the world. We start from the assumption that there is no
one-size-fits-all approach of securing the benefits of open data. The
Barometer is designed to help us understand both common progress, and
different pathways, towards unlocking benefits from OGD. By creating a
composite index from the indicators gathered for the Barometer we hope
to raise questions about how OGD in different countries compares, and by
breaking this down into a range of sub-components we aim to illustrate
the many different elements that may be important to effective OGD
policy and practice. 

Above all, the Open Data Barometer is a piece of open research. All the
data gathered to create the Barometer will be published under an open
license, and we have sought to set out our methodology clearly, allowing
others to build upon, remix and reinterpret the data we offer. Data
collected for the Barometer is the start, rather than the end, of a
research process and exploration.

## The promise and realisation of open data

Open data has many roots and many branches. Different groups have come
together to advocate for Open Government Data based on the potential for
it to lead to:

-   More efficient and effective government – both through government
    using its own data better, and through innovators outside of
    government identifying improved ways to provide public services,
    meeting the diverse needs of citizens through digital technologies;

-   Innovation and economic growth – acting as a 21^st^ Century
    infrastructure, and a raw material, for activity in the information
    economy. Start-ups and established businesses can use open data to
    generate new products and services, and secure efficiencies,
    generating a net-gain for country economies;

-   Transparency and accountability – allowing citizens and civil
    society to see, understand and monitor better what their governments
    and the private sector are doing, challenging corruption or
    unaccountable activity, and finding opportunities to influence
    policy and practice;

-   Inclusion and empowerment – enabling marginalised groups to get
    involved in the political process, and removing imbalances of power
    created through information asymmetry.

Taken together these potential outcomes provide a strong argument in
favour of shifting to ‘open by default’ for all the non-personal data
governments collect. Right now, much of the value of government held
data remains locked-up. 

However, just because OGD in the abstract is a common ingredient to all
these forms of change, that does not necessarily mean that any and all
open data help secure any and all outcomes. There will be different
datasets and different pre-requisites involved in securing different
kinds of open data impact. Meanwhile, across different countries the
range of quality of data that is ‘locked up’ inside government, and the
relative costs of getting it out, will vary. In the Open Data Barometer
we’ve measured a range of factors that affect the capacity of
government, citizens and civil society, and entrepreneurs and business
to secure the benefits from open data, and we’ve looked at a breadth of
datasets, from those primarily useful for accountability, to those that
provide key foundations for building innovative businesses.

In the pages that follow we take a broad look at how far the promise of
open data is being delivered, and outline some of the current challenges
to be met in further securing the potential. 

-

**Key facts: methodology **

The Open Data Barometer is based upon three kinds of data:

-   **A peer reviewed expert survey** carried out between July to
    October 2013, asking researchers to provide a score from 0 – 10 in
    response to a range of questions about open data contexts, policy,
    implementation and impacts. Scores were normalised (using z-scores)
    prior to inclusion in the Barometer.

-   **Detailed dataset assessments** also completed by our expert
    researchers, reviewed through a double-blind review process, and
    subsequently verified by a technical expert. These assessments were
    based on a 10-point checklist, completed for 15 kinds of data in
    each country, touching on issues of data availability, format,
    license, timeliness and discoverability. Each checklist answer is
    supported by qualitative information and detailed hyperlinks, and
    checklist responses are aggregated to provide a 0 – 10 score for
    each dataset. These are presented in their original form, to allow
    comparison between datasets, and are averaged to give a dataset
    implementation sub-index. This sub-index is normalised (using
    z-scores) prior to inclusion in the overall Barometer calculations.

-   **Secondary data**selected to complement our expert survey data.
    This is used in the readiness section of the Barometer, and is taken
    from the World Economic Forum, United Nations e-Government Survey,
    and Freedom House. The data is normalised using z-scores prior to
    inclusion in the Barometer. 

The list of countries included in the 2013 Barometer is based upon the
Web Index (thewebindex.org) sample, which was designed to represent a
broad range of different regions, political systems and levels of
development. It also supports further interrogation of ODB data
alongside data from the forthcoming 2013 Web Index. 

-

# Open data diffusion: rapid but unequal

In the Open Data Barometer sample of 77 diverse states across the world,
over 55% have developed some form of Open Government Data (OGD)
initiative, with over 25% of the total sample establishing initiatives
with dedicated resources and senior level political backing. The map
below demonstrates both the global extent and depth of government level
activity on open data, yet also reflects the unequal diffusion of OGD
practices. 

[<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/image034.png" alt="Figure 1: Heatmap of scores for expert survey question:" title="Figure 1: Heatmap of scores for expert survey question: 'To what extent is there a well-resourced open government data initiative in this country?' Higher scores (darker colours on the map) indicate a well-resourced initiative, with strong political commitment. Countries in white were not included in the Open Data Barometer study." class="figure">]({{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image033.png "Full size figure") 

*Figure 1: Heatmap of scores for expert survey question: 'To what extent is there a well-resourced open government data initiative in this country?' Higher scores (darker colours on the map) indicate a well-resourced initiative, with strong political commitment. Countries in white were not included in the Open Data Barometer study.*


The Open Data Barometer survey asked a range of questions to explore the
extent of OGD adoption in different countries, including: establishing
whether underpinnings for OGD were in place through Right to Information
(RTI) laws; whether central government had an OGD initiative; whether
city or regional governments were running OGD initiatives; whether there
was demand from civil society and the technology community for OGD; and
whether governments were providing support for OGD re-use through
training, innovation events, grants and voucher schemes. By looking at
these different dimensions we are able to get a sense of how broad-based
existing OGD initiatives are. 

<table class="data-table">

    <tr>
       <th>Regions</th> <th>Right to Information Laws</th> <th>OGD Initiative</th> <th>Demand from civil society &amp; technologists</th> <th>Government support for OGD innovation</th> <th>City or regional OGD</th>
       
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <th>Africa</th>
    <td>35.71</td>
    <td>28.57</td>
    <td>28.10</td>
    <td>14.81</td>
    <td>5.29</td>
    </tr><tr>
    <th>Americas</th>
    <td>60.77</td>
    <td>50.77</td>
    <td>42.31</td>
    <td>29.06</td>
    <td>34.19</td>
    </tr><tr>
    <th>Asia Pacific</th>
    <td>56.92</td>
    <td>50.00</td>
    <td>46.15</td>
    <td>29.06</td>
    <td>23.93</td>
    </tr><tr>
    <th>Europe</th>
    <td>61.36</td>
    <td>55.45</td>
    <td>61.82</td>
    <td>38.89</td>
    <td>47.47</td>
    </tr><tr>
    <th>Middle East &amp; C. Asia</th>
    <td>22.50</td>
    <td>38.75</td>
    <td>21.25</td>
    <td>8.33</td>
    <td>8.33</td>
    </tr><tr>
    <th><strong>Total</strong></th>
    <td class="total">49.48</td>
    <td class="total">44.68</td>
    <td class="total">42.47</td>
    <td class="total">25.83</td>
    <td class="total">25.69</td>
    </tr>
</table>    

*Table 1: Regional breakdown of Open Data Barometer survey responses.
Mean average of normalised (z-score) and scaled values. OGD Initiative
variable in bold. Higher scores are better.*

As Table 1 above highlights, the Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe have
broadly comparable scores when it comes to the presence of OGD
initiatives, but greater variation can be seen when it comes to civil
society and technologist demand for OGD and government support for
innovation. Across all the areas surveyed, government support for
innovation is low, suggesting an emphasis on getting data online, but
less attention being paid to supporting re-use of data. Table 1 also
highlights that at present it is more common for countries to have OGD
initiatives at the national level, rather than the city level, although
there are some notable exceptions emerging, such as Nigeria, where Edo
State has recently launched an OGD portal ahead of the presence of a
national government portal. 

Looking at the same data, grouped by the 2012 Human Development Index
ranking of the countries concerned (Malik, 2013), we see a strong
relationship between levels of development and variables concerning the
diffusion of OGD policy and practice (Table 2). 


<table class="data-table">
<tr>
<th>Regions</th>
<th>Right to Information laws</th>
<th>OGD Initiative</th>
<th>Demand from civil society &amp; technologists</th>
<th>Government support for OGD innovation</th>
<th>City or Regional OGD</th>
</tr><tr>
<th>Very High</th>
<td>57.81</td>
<td>59.69</td>
<td>60.31</td>
<td>40.28</td>
<td>45.14</td>
</tr><tr>
<th>High</th>
<td>48.75</td>
<td>43.13</td>
<td>31.88</td>
<td>18.06</td>
<td>22.22</td>
</tr><tr>
<th>Medium</th>
<td>40.00</td>
<td>40.91</td>
<td>34.55</td>
<td>18.18</td>
<td>12.12</td>
</tr><tr>
<th>Low</th>
<td>41.11</td>
<td>21.67</td>
<td>25.00</td>
<td>11.73</td>
<td>2.47</td>
</tr><tr>
<th class="total">Total</th>
<td class="total">49.48</td>
<td class="total">44.68</td>
<td class="total">42.47</td>
<td class="total">25.83</td>
<td class="total">25.69</td>
</tr>
</table>
*Table 2: Average score by HDI Rank, normalised and scaled variables from
expert-survey.*

It is notable however, that the gap between medium and high HDI
countries is narrow with respect to the presence and strength of OGD
initiatives, and that demand from civil society and technologists
appears marginally stronger in medium HDI than in those with a high HDI
rank. 

# Open data readiness

Successful OGD initiatives need more than just datasets. They also need
intermediaries, able to take government data and turn it into platforms
and products with social and economic value, and re-users equipped to
access and work with data in different ways. This is sometimes talked of
as the need for an ecosystem around the core data infrastructures of an
OGD programme. In recognition of this, the Open Data Barometer looks at
a number of different variables as part of assessing a country’s
capacity to secure and sustain the full benefits of open data.


For analysis we divide the Open Data Barometer readiness variables into
three components. These are: 

-   **Government** capacity and the presence of government commitments to
    open data, addressing the political will and organisational ability
    of governments to both make open data available, and to secure
    benefits from open data, such as increased operational efficiency.
-   **Citizen and civil society** freedoms and engagement with the open
    data agenda, including the presence of strong Right to Information
    and Data Protection regimes, which exploratory research in the Open
    Data in Developing Countries project (Davies, Perini, & Alonso,
    2013) has suggested are important for empowering citizens to hold
    government to account, and protecting citizens from potential abuses
    of open data. 
-   Resources available to **entrepreneurs and businesses** to support
    economic re-use of open data and to catalyse intermediary actions,
    including internet penetration, the availability of training for
    businesses, and government support for open data led innovation. 

The readiness variables selected were also designed to cover all six
dimensions of open data readiness (Alonso, 2011): legal, political,
social, economic, organisational and technical capacity, recognising
that effective open data initiatives require engagement of a broad range
of actors in society (Hogge, 2010). 

The radar charts in Figure 2 below present a regional breakdown of the
ODB readiness component.

[<img src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image036.png" title="Figure 2: Radar charts showing scaled component scores in the readiness
sub-index by region." alt="Figure 2: Radar charts showing scaled component scores in the readiness sub-index by region." class="figure">]({{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image035.png)

*Figure 2: Radar charts showing scaled component scores in the readiness
sub-index by region.*

The low open data readiness in Africa is particularly impacted by
limited internet penetration, and a scarcity of training for the
entrepreneurs and civic technologists who often act as key
intermediaries between open data, and wider use of that data. Developing
open data on the African continent may require both substantial focus on
building the capacity and sustainability of such intermediaries, as well
as exploring different approaches to making data accessible that do not
rely on Internet penetration, such as through print media, community
radio and mobile phones.

By contrast, in the Middle East and Central Asia, there is reasonably
strong technical capacity, but limits on civil society freedoms, and the
absence of strong Right to Information laws to back up civil society use
of open data lead to much lower citizen and civil society readiness to
secure benefits from open data. The presence of open government data
portals in a number of countries with low civil society readiness
(Kazakhstan, Bahrain) raises questions about open data policy transfer
taking place at the elite level, with open data potentially developed
largely as an ‘e-government’ project, rather than as part of broader
based open government initiatives involving governments, private sector
and civil society. 

In following chapter we look at a number of country case studies to
explore in more depth the different paths that countries are taking to
open data readiness and implementation.

# Implementation: dataset availability and accessibility

[<img src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image037.png" alt="Five stars of open data" title="Five stars of open data">](http://fivestardata.info)

In calling for ‘Raw Data Now’, Tim Berners-Lee set out a progressive
model for open data publication in the ‘Five Stars of Linked Data’
(Berners-Lee, 2010). This calls on governments to place data online in
any format, to move towards making it machine readable in open formats,
and then ultimately to complement these accessible datasets with
standardised and linked datasets, supporting citizens, entrepreneurs and
government itself to connect up disparate data across the web. 

In this model, the perfect should not be the enemy of the good:
government should get data online, and then should work to improve it -
lowering the technical and legal barriers that might prevent it being
re-used - and adding value to it through linked data. In the Open Data
Barometer, we used a 10-point checklist to assess the relative openness
of 14 different categories of data in each country: addressing not only
the availability, format and license of data, but also how easy it was
to discover, and whether it was a one-off data dump, or a sustainable
on-going stream of high-quality and timely data. In addition to
assessing the extent to which governments were publishing open data, we
also looked at the wider climate of open data publication in each
country with questions on academic, civil society and business
publication of open data, although to maintain the focus of the overall
ODB rankings on *central government* OGD actions, these are not included
in the overall scoring framework.

The heat map below contrasts with the previous map of policy diffusion,
showing the availability of open data currently lags behind the
formation of open data policies in many countries.

[<img src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image040.png" title="Figure 3: Heatmap of ODB Implementation score by country - based on openness of 14 key datasets." alt="Figure 3: Heatmap of ODB Implementation score by country - based on openness of 14 key datasets." class="figure">]({{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image039.png)

*Figure 3: Heatmap of ODB Implementation score by country - based on
openness of 14 key datasets.*

Just 71 of the datasets assessed in the Open Data Barometer study were
available as full open data (6.6%), and just 13 (1.2%) were published
with clear URIs for key elements in the data in ways that would support
linked data publication (for 4- or 5-star Linked Open Data). Even
removing the 257 cases in which national governments do not hold the
data surveyed (for example, in some countries company registration or
cadastral information is only held at a state or local government
level), we still find less than 1 in 10 datasets are published as full
open data (71 of 821). In particular, many datasets that were otherwise
available were published under restrictive licenses, or without clear
license terms – and many datasets were not available for bulk download. 

The most common file-format for published data was Excel (approximately
280 datasets) with many of these datasets providing only aggregated
data. CSV was the second most common format, with over 130 datasets
available in this format. Around 80 datasets were available in XML
format. Overall these figures suggest that we are still at an early
stage of making data available and open online, with the majority of
available government data currently meriting only one or two stars on
the five-star scale. 

## Which data is being made available?

It doesn’t just matter that governments are publishing data: it matters
what that data is. Whilst countries may boast of the hundreds of
datasets they have published online, if these are not the data demanded
by citizens, or the kinds of data that can enable transparency,
accountability, innovation and greater inclusion, then there may be
little potential for an OGD initiative to deliver impact. 

In selecting datasets to include in the Open Data Barometer study, we
sought to include a breadth of categories that represent both the
different functions of government, and the different kinds of data that
particular re-users of data may be interested in. We paid close
attention to selected datasets that had a high likelihood of being
available across diverse countries, and we provided guidance to
researchers on a dataset-by-dataset basis to deal with cases where data
might be only available at a sub-national level. Table 3 below shows how
the datasets included in the Open Data Barometer represent a range of
different potential uses of data. Of course, the nature of open data
means categories are not mutually exclusive: the same dataset might be
useful across social policy, innovation and accountability arenas.
Future work is needed to unpack which datasets contribute most to
certain kinds of impacts in different contexts, and how the technical
features of those datasets affect their use.  

<table class="dataset-clusters">
    <tr>
        <th>Innovation Cluster</th>
        <th>Social Policy Cluster</th>
        <th>Accountability Cluster</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data commonly used in open data applications by entrepreneurs, or with
significant value to business.</td>
        <td>Data useful in planning, delivering and critiquing social policies &amp;
        with the potential to support greater inclusion and empowerment.</td>
        <td>Data central to holding governments and corporations to account. Based
        on the ‘Accountability Stack’ proposed by Perrin (2012).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Map Data; Public Transport Timetables; Crime Statistics; International Trade Data</td>
        <td>Health Sector Performance; Primary or Secondary Education Performance Data; National Environment Statistics; Detailed Census Data; Land Ownership Data;</td>
        <td>Legislation; National Election Results; Detailed Government Budget; Detailed Government Spend; Company Register</td>
    </tr>
</table>

*Table 3: Dataset clusters used in Open Data Barometer analysis*

Figure 4 below shows the average score each dataset received in each
region, along with the global average. The number in brackets shows the
number of datasets in each category that were found to meet the full
Open Definition requirements of being machine readable, accessible in
bulk, and openly licensed. Through this we can see considerable
variation in the kinds of data being made available.

Census and trade data, generally supplied by national statistical
agencies score highest on this scale, reflecting the capacity of
statistical agencies to provide timely and regularly updated datasets,
and the widespread existence of online platforms for accessing
machine-readable extracts of statistical agency data. However, many of
these datasets fall short of meeting the open definition due to the
absence of a clear open license statement, or limitations preventing
re-users from accessing bulk extracts of the data – instead leaving
governments to play an interpretive role in determining what analysis
can be made of statistical data. 

After statistical datasets, national budgets are the next highest
scoring, almost ten points on average ahead of spending data, which is
less likely to be published, and when available is often published in
very aggregated forms that do not allow citizens to drill down to track
government transactions in detail. Least likely to be openly available
are Land and Company Registration data, reflecting both the absence of
coherent land and company registry datasets in a number of countries,
and a low priority apparently placed by many OGD initiatives on making
these datasets available. Given the current political salience of
corporate transparency, and the presence of land governance as a
high-profile issue on the international agenda, this does raise
questions about whether Open Government Data initiatives, as currently
constituted, are able to deliver valuable, but potentially contentious
datasets, the release of which may threaten entrenched political
interests. One of the barriers to the release of these datasets appears
to be the established charging regimes, in which agencies are either
funded through sales of data, or where historic conventions of charging
for access to paper records have been continued as datasets have been
digitised. 

[<img src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image042.png" alt="Figure 4: Average openness scores by dataset category, using weighted dataset checklist survey responses." title="Figure 4: Average openness scores by dataset category, using weighted dataset checklist survey responses." class="figure">]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/image/image042.png)

*Figure 4: Average openness scores by dataset category, using weighted
dataset checklist survey responses.*

Across the datasets available, there was very little evidence of
standardisation, with the exception of Public Transport data, where many
data publishers were making use of the General Transit Feed
Specification (GTFS). Given the potential value in being able to combine
statistics, financial information and company information across borders
in order to address key social issues, further work on developing
inclusive and open standards is likely to be needed in future. 

### Not all data is created equal: looking inside the dataset

This report is focussed primarily on our quantitative findings. However,
our expert survey also pointed to important issues of data quality and
trustworthiness. Of the 113 datasets that were available in
machine-readable and openly licensed form, researchers found 15 where
the sustainability of their publication was questionable, and 20 that
were not up-to-date or published in a timely fashion. Entrepreneurs and
businesses are much more likely to build upon data when they are assured
about its continued availability, and many forms of citizen action rely
on having timely access to data. For example, data on crime that is
months old, or not published regularly in the same format, is hard to
use to scrutinise police performance, or to power innovative
applications. 

In their qualitative responses, researchers drew attention to the
limited scope of many datasets, particularly in developing countries.
For example, researchers reported that education statistics were missing
for certain regions, or that health statistics were only provided at
very aggregate levels. In many countries public transport data is
unavailable, either because it is not managed in any structured way (see
for example (Raman, 2012)) or because no public transport services
exist. The reliability of key datasets in some countries was also raised
as a significant issue. For example, in Chile, the 2012 Census data were
called into question due to methodological flaws, and the results have
now been withdrawn. In viewing the Open Data Barometer results it is
important to be aware that not all data is created equal, and a full
assessment of the potential of open data in each country needs to look
in more depth at the particular histories of each dataset (Gitelman,
2013; Rosenburg, 2013).

One of the reasons that innovators value government data is its
reliability, standardisation and comprehensiveness (Lakomaa & Kallberg,
2013). In well-resourced states, few other institutions can provide such
consistent data covering the whole country. This makes open data, or
Public Sector Information, a valuable input to economic activity.
However, where government capacity is limited, the data available might
not have these properties. This suggests that alternative approaches to
using open data for innovation, and for securing accountability, will
need to be explored in many developing countries, and raises questions
about how far applications from one context can easily be transferred to
another. Securing benefits from open data is likely to require
contextually aware capacity building: rather than the implementation of
top-down training templates. 

## Full data availability listings

In total, the Open Data Barometer has collected information on the
availability of 1078 different datasets across 14 categories, looking at
a range of aspects of data availability and openness (including online
availability, machine-readability, license, sustainability, timeliness
of updates and discoverability). The matrix overleaf sets out the scores
assigned for each category of data by country, with larger circles
representing greater openness, and a thick outline given to each dataset
which meets the full open definition. 


### Key

<img src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image044.png">

Circle size represents openness score. 

<img src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image046.png">

Thick outline represents data a dataset meeting the open definition
criteria

The overall dataset score (column 2) is the average of individual
dataset scores for a country. Scores are awarded on a 0 – 100 scale,
based on a weighted 10-point checklist. For the weights given to each
question see Table 6 in the methodology Annexe. 60% of the overall score
is made up by the components of the Open Definition (OKF, 2006).

### Datasets

[<img src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/datasetlistpreview.png" alt="Dataset listings" title="Dataset availability listings" class="figure"/>](http://knapek.org/temp/openDataBarometer/graphics/test01/odb_interactive_basedOn18__slowDataImportTesting_v47_export.html?iframe=true&width=2000&height=1000)


# Early indications of impact

Few methods exist for assessing the impacts of open data publication.
Whilst in a number of countries studies exist that have estimated the
economic potential of open data, across our 77-country research we could
not locate any comprehensive evaluations that quantify the benefits of
open data. This is unsurprising given the very early stage of open data
initiatives in most countries, although it does highlight a key
challenge for research in the coming years. 

To help inform the development of future impact measurement methods, we
asked our expert survey researchers to look for media and academic
mentions of where open data had been used, and had been cited as the
cause of some substantive change, across a range of different settings,
including government transparency, government efficiency, environmental
sustainability, social inclusion, economic growth and entrepreneurial
activity. The more mentions of impact, and the more substantial the
impact mentioned, the higher the score researchers could grant a country
on each of these dimensions. Although this does not offer substantive
proof of impact, it does allow us to start exploring the relative
emphasis on different kinds of open data impacts currently seen in
different countries. 

Figure 5 shows the non-normalised mean impact score given against these
different categories. Researchers could award scores on a 0 – 10 scale.
The median score awarded across all six of the impact questions asked
was 0, with the exception of accountability, with a median score of 1.
Excluding countries with a low score on variables for the presence of
OGD initiatives marginally increases the mean, but does not alter the
ordering of the categories. 

[<img src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image054.png" alt="Figure 5: Evidence of open data impact by category" title="Figure 5: Average across all countries of response to expert survey question of the form 'To what extent has open data had a noticeable impact on...X" class="figure">]({{ site.baseurl}}/assets/images/image053.png)

*Figure 5: Average across all countries of response to expert survey
question of the form 'To what extent has open data had a noticeable
impact on...X' (see Annexe for question wording). Non-normalised values
to allow comparison between questions.*

Stories of open data impact discovered across the ODB survey were most
likely to focus on accountability, closely followed by entrepreneurship
and the creation of innovative applications or start-ups. Many of these
enterprise stories were closely related to app competitions and
hack-days, highlighting the importance of activity to stimulate the
economic re-use of open data, although researchers noted that few hack
day events were rigorously evaluated. Environmental and social inclusion
impacts of open data are the least cited, suggesting that there is much
more work to be done to explore and stimulate potential uses of open
data in these areas. In particular, there may be scope for more sectoral
capacity building around open data.

# Global snapshot: conclusions

From this global snapshot we can see that whilst OGD policy has spread
rapidly, and in a number of regions there are strong government,
business and civil society foundations for open data initiatives, we are
still a long way from seeing widespread implementation and impacts of
those policies, in terms of data published and used, with uses and their
consequences evaluated. 

In the following section we turn to a comparative country analysis of
the Open Data Barometer survey to explore in more depth the kinds of
activities that leading countries are undertaking to build their open
data programmes, and to identify different patterns of OGD development
around the world. 

